# Incident: 2024-12-08 04-00-00

## Summary

Between the hour of 13:00 and 16:00 on 2024-12-08, 2 test users encountered a significant latency on the call to the pizza factory's create pizza endpoint. The event was triggered by a change in the pizza factory's data instructing it to throttle requests from my website at 13:00.

The event was detected by Grafana Metrics, measuring the request latency and pizza creation latency. The team started working on the event by 14:00. This High severity level incident affected 100% of test users.

## Detection

This incident was detected when the pizza creation latency alert was triggered and JWT Pizza OnCall team were paged.

Eli Barton was in Elders Quorum Meeting, but afterwards spent 1.5 hours diagnosing and remedying the problem, delaying the response by 2.5 hours.

## Impact

For 3 hours between 13:00 and 16:00 on 2024-12-08, pizza creation experienced severe latency and 100% of our 2 test users experienced this incident.

## Timeline

Detail the incident timeline. We recommend using UTC to standardize for timezones.

Include any notable lead-up events, any starts of activity, the first known impact, and escalations. Note any decisions or changed made, and when the incident ended, along with any post-impact events of note.

- _11:30_ - Test data stops being sent to JWT Pizza, because Eli Barton went to sacrament meeting
- _13:00_ - JWT pizza factory begins throttling JWT Pizza creation
- _14:10_ - Test data resumes being sent to JWT Pizza
- _14:15_ - Pizza creation latency and request latency alerts go off
- _14:16_ - Eli Barton responds to the alerts and begins diagnosing the problem
- _16:00_ - Problem is resolved

## Response

Who responded to the incident? When did they respond, and what did they do? Note any delays or obstacles to responding.

**EXAMPLE**:

After receiving a page at 14:15, Eli Barton came online at 14:16 to diagnose and resolve the problem.

This engineer did not have a background in the inner workings of the JWT pizza factory, delaying the resolution time.

# Root cause

Pizza creation was intentionally throttled in order to test the reaction and resolution time.

## Resolution

Eli Barton reviewed the documentation for the JWT pizza factory and discovered how the throttling was enabled but couldn't figure out how to disable it. After receiving a hint from another student, Eli checked the logs and discovered a link that disabled the throttling. 

# Prevention

This was an intentional test, but if this were happening for real, we could have a backup factory that we could use if the first one were to fail.

# Action items

1. Create a backup JWT Pizza factory
2. Instruct the JWT Pizza Service to automatically switch to the backup factory when the first factory fails.
